PR: Add troubleshooting section to docs (#167)
spyder-ide/spyder-docs: doc/common-illnesses.rst

There are a number of problems that can cause this, but most can be fixed fairly quickly with a few easy steps.

Spyder-Kernels not installed/incompatible
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Spyder requires a supported version of the ``spyder-kernels`` package to be present in the working environment you want to run your console in.

.. image:: images/common-illnesses/common-illnesses-kernel-version.png
   :alt: Kernel version error dialog

It is included by default with Anaconda, but if you want to run your code in another Python environment or installation, you'll need to make sure it's installed and updated to the latest version.

To do so, activate the environment, then install ``spyder-kernels``.
If using Anaconda, open a terminal (Anaconda prompt on Windows) and run:

.. code-block:: bash

   conda activate ENVIRONEMENT-NAME
   conda install spyder-kernels=1

Otherwise, activate your environment by whatever means you installed it, and execute:

.. code-block:: bash

>    pip install spyder-kernels==1.*

Reviewer: Add table with versions and update command

   :alt: Object not found in help pane
   :width: 500px

However, once you run your code in the :doc:`ipythonconsole`, you might be able to get help and completions on the object there.

LSP has stopped working
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Occasionally, especially after using Spyder for a while, code completion, help and analysis may stop working.
If this is the case, you can check LSP status with the :guilabel:`LSP Python` item in Spyder's status bar at the bottom of the screen, and restart it by right-clicking it and selecting the :guilabel:`Restart Python Language Server` item.

.. image:: images/common-illnesses/common-illnesses-LSP-restart.png
   :alt: Spyder with LSP restart dialog

Spyder bug/dependency issue
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Given the variety of dependencies involved in making LSP work, an incompatible or out of date version in your environment can result in error messages, incomplete results, or help/analysis not working at all.

To address this, first try updating Anaconda and Spyder as described in :doc:`basic-first-aid`.
If the issue still isn't resolved, update the various relevant dependencies with:

.. code-block:: bash

>    conda update jedi rope parso python-language-server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   conda update python-language-server
```

However, once you run your code in the :doc:`ipythonconsole`, you might be able to get help and completions on the object there.

LSP has stopped working
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Occasionally, especially after using Spyder for a while, code completion, help and analysis may stop working.
If this is the case, you can check LSP status with the :guilabel:`LSP Python` item in Spyder's status bar at the bottom of the screen, and restart it by right-clicking it and selecting the :guilabel:`Restart Python Language Server` item.

.. image:: images/common-illnesses/common-illnesses-LSP-restart.png
   :alt: Spyder with LSP restart dialog

Spyder bug/dependency issue
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Given the variety of dependencies involved in making LSP work, an incompatible or out of date version in your environment can result in error messages, incomplete results, or help/analysis not working at all.

To address this, first try updating Anaconda and Spyder as described in :doc:`basic-first-aid`.
If the issue still isn't resolved, update the various relevant dependencies with:

.. code-block:: bash

   conda update python-language-server

===============
Plugin Problems
===============

> If the error mentions or involves a Spyder plug-in, such as ``spyder-unittest``, ``spyder-terminal`` or ``spyder-notebook``, the first approach should be to update Spyder and the plugin to their latest versions.
> 
> If this doesn't fix the problem, you should check the plugin's website or repository to see if it is compatible with your version of Spyder.
> 
> Finally, if compatibility doesn't seem to be the problem, please check those repositories to see if an issue was already opened, and report it there if not.

Reviewer 2: Here is an added section:

```suggestion

Plugin does not work at all
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you have installed a Spyder plug-in, but Spyder does not seem to see it, then first select the :guilabel:`Dependencies` item under the :guilabel:`Help` menu. All Spyder plug-ins are listed at the bottom of the list of dependencies.

If the plug-in with the problem is listed in the list of dependencies, then go to the :guilabel:`Panes` submenu of the :guilabel:`View` menu and select the plug-in. This makes the plug-in pane visible.

If the plug-in with the problem is not listed in the list of dependencies, then check that you installed it in the same environment as Spyder. If you have, then the problem may well be caused by a dependency issue. Test whether you can import the plug-in manually by opening a Python console in the same environment as Spyder and typing for instance `import spyder_unittest` to test the `spyder-unittest` plug-in; this command should run without errors.

If none of this helps you to resolve the problem, then continue as in the next section.

Other issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you get an error which mentions or involves a Spyder plug-in, such as ``spyder-unittest``, ``spyder-terminal`` or ``spyder-notebook``, or if you encounter any other problem with a Spyder plug-in, then the first approach should be to update Spyder and the plugin to their latest versions.

If this doesn't fix the problem, you should check the plugin's website or repository to see if it is compatible with your version of Spyder.

Finally, if compatibility doesn't seem to be the problem, please check those repositories to see if an issue was already opened, and report it there if not.
```

Author: Thank you very much @jitseniesen. I'm committing your suggestion so @CAM-Gerlach can take a final review to it just to make sure format and style are fine.

Errors starting the kernel
==========================

If you receive the message ``An error occurred while starting the kernel`` in the :doc:`ipythonconsole`, Spyder was unable to launch a new Python interpreter in the current working environment to run your code.
There are a number of problems that can cause this, but most can be fixed fairly quickly with a few easy steps.

Spyder-Kernels not installed/incompatible
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Spyder requires a supported version of the ``spyder-kernels`` package to be present in the working environment you want to run your console in.

.. image:: images/common-illnesses/common-illnesses-kernel-version.png
   :alt: Kernel version error dialog

It is included by default with Anaconda, but if you want to run your code in another Python environment or installation, you'll need to make sure it's installed and updated to the latest version.

Check the required version of spyder-kernels for your version of Spyder in the following table:

.. table:: Spyder and Spyder-Kernels version compatibility

   ==============   ==============
   Spyder           Spyder-Kernels
   ==============   ==============

>    4.0.0-4.0.1      1.8.1

Reviewer: Yeah, but on the other hand its the docs for Spyder 4. Up to @juanis2112 .

If we do implement this, because users are putting this value directly into the conda command, it needs to be a valid version spec and should be the latest version, since it is hardcoded down to the patch. So:

```suggestion
   3.3.0-3.3.6      0.5.2
   4.0.0-4.0.1      1.8.1
```

>    4.0.0-4.0.1      1.8.1

Reviewer 3: > I think we shouldn't talk about Spyder 3 at all.

Ok, I agree with you @juanis2112. Besides, @CAM-Gerlach's suggestion is not applicable because there are also specific versions of spyder-kernels 0.x that work with specific ones of Spyder (now that I remember).

   4.1.0-4.1.2      1.9.0
   4.1.3            1.9.1

>    4.1.4            1.9.2

Reviewer: Again, following the above, this needs to be

```suggestion
   4.1.4            1.9.3
```

If the kernel displays a long error traceback that mentions other packages like ``ipython``, ``ipykernel``, ``jupyter_client``, ``traitlets`` or ``pyzmq``, the problem may be an out of date or incompatible version of a dependency package.
To fix this, activate the environment and update the key dependencies.

In an Anaconda environment:

.. code-block:: bash

   conda activate ENVIRONMENT-NAME
   conda update spyder-kernels ipython ipykernel jupyter_client jupyter_core pyzmq traitlets

Otherwise, activate your environment by whatever means you created it, and run:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install -U spyder-kernels ipython ipykernel jupyter_client jupyter_core pyzmq traitlets

AttributeError/ImportError
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check the last few lines of the error message, and see if its an ``AttributeError`` or ``ImportError``, or refers to a file you created in your current working directory or your home folder (:file:`C:/Users/YOUR_USERNAME` on Windows, :file:`/Users/YOUR_USERNAME` on macOS, or :file:`/home/YOUR_USERNAME` on Linux).

.. image:: images/common-illnesses/common-illnesses-atribute-error.png
   :alt: Spyder's AtributeError dialog

> If so, the the error is likely due to your file being named the same as a Python standard library module, such as ``string`` or ``time``, which overrides the built-in module that Spyder-Kernels is trying to load.

Reviewer: I was referring to the modules rather than the files, but yeah I guess so.

LSP has stopped working
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Occasionally, especially after using Spyder for a while, code completion, help and analysis may stop working.
If this is the case, you can check LSP status with the :guilabel:`LSP Python` item in Spyder's status bar at the bottom of the screen, and restart it by right-clicking it and selecting the :guilabel:`Restart Python Language Server` item.

.. image:: images/common-illnesses/common-illnesses-LSP-restart.png
   :alt: Spyder with LSP restart dialog

Spyder bug/dependency issue
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Given the variety of dependencies involved in making LSP work, an incompatible or out of date version in your environment can result in error messages, incomplete results, or help/analysis not working at all.

To address this, first try updating Anaconda and Spyder as described in :doc:`basic-first-aid`.
If the issue still isn't resolved, update the various relevant dependencies with:

.. code-block:: bash

   conda update python-language-server

===============
Plugin Problems
===============

Plugin does not work at all
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you have installed a Spyder plug-in, but Spyder does not seem to see it, then first select the :guilabel:`Dependencies` item under the :guilabel:`Help` menu. All Spyder plug-ins are listed at the bottom of the list of dependencies.

Reviewer: Sure

LSP has stopped working
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Occasionally, especially after using Spyder for a while, code completion, help and analysis may stop working.
If this is the case, you can check LSP status with the :guilabel:`LSP Python` item in Spyder's status bar at the bottom of the screen, and restart it by right-clicking it and selecting the :guilabel:`Restart Python Language Server` item.

.. image:: images/common-illnesses/common-illnesses-LSP-restart.png
   :alt: Spyder with LSP restart dialog

Spyder bug/dependency issue
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Given the variety of dependencies involved in making LSP work, an incompatible or out of date version in your environment can result in error messages, incomplete results, or help/analysis not working at all.

To address this, first try updating Anaconda and Spyder as described in :doc:`basic-first-aid`.
If the issue still isn't resolved, update the various relevant dependencies with:

.. code-block:: bash

   conda update python-language-server

===============
Plugin Problems
===============

Plugin does not work at all
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you have installed a Spyder plug-in, but Spyder does not seem to see it, then first select the :guilabel:`Dependencies` item under the :guilabel:`Help` menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have installed a Spyder plugin, but Spyder does not seem to see it, first select the :guilabel:`Dependencies` item under the :guilabel:`Help` menu.
```

Improve flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have installed a Spyder plugin, but you can't see it, go to the :guilabel:`Panes` submenu of the :guilabel:`View` menu and select the plugin's name, which should make its pane visible.
If you don't see the plugin there, select the :guilabel:`Dependencies` item under the :guilabel:`Help` menu and see if the plugin appears at the bottom.
```

Flip the order of the deps dialog and view menu, since its faster for users if the plugin is already working, and simplify the prose.

> All Spyder plug-ins are listed at the bottom of the list of dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Spyder plugins are listed at the bottom of the list of dependencies.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Moved above

> If the plug-in with the problem is listed in the list of dependencies, then go to the :guilabel:`Panes` submenu of the :guilabel:`View` menu and select the plug-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the plugin with the problem is listed there, go to the :guilabel:`Panes` submenu of the :guilabel:`View` menu and select the plug-in's name.
```

Fix phrasing, slightly improve clarity and avoid repetition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Moved above

> This makes the plug-in pane visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This makes the plugin's pane visible.
```

Fix grammar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Moved above.

> If the plug-in with the problem is not listed in the list of dependencies, then check that you installed it in the same environment as Spyder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the plugin with the problem is not listed in the dependencies dialog, check that you installed it in the same environment as Spyder.
```

Flow and avoid repetition

If you have, then the problem may well be caused by a dependency issue.

> Test whether you can import the plug-in manually by opening a Python console in the same environment as Spyder and typing for instance `import spyder_unittest` to test the `spyder-unittest` plug-in; this command should run without errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test whether you can import the plug-in manually by opening a Python console in the same environment as Spyder and typing, for instance, ``import spyder_unittest`` to test the Spyder-Unittest` plug-in; this command should run without errors.
```

Fix syntax

> If none of this helps you to resolve the problem, then continue as in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If none of this helps you to resolve the problem, then continue to the next section.
```

Clarify/improve phrasing

Other issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you get an error which mentions or involves a Spyder plug-in, such as ``spyder-unittest``, ``spyder-terminal`` or ``spyder-notebook``, or if you encounter any other problem with a Spyder plug-in, then the first approach should be to update Spyder and the plugin to their latest versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get an error which mentions or involves a Spyder plugin, such as ``spyder-unittest``, ``spyder-terminal`` or ``spyder-notebook``, or if you encounter any other problem with a Spyder plugin, then the first approach should be to update Spyder and the plugin to their latest versions.
```
